in this video,
we're going to discuss the range dot count property.
So the range thought count property.
What it does is that it gives us the count off the cells in a range,
and it will count the cells regardless if they contain values or not.
So even if the cells are blank,
they will still be counted.
And that is unlike the count function in Excel,
the worksheet function count,
which you get by writing,
equals count in a cell.
This function will only count the cells if they contain values or numbers.
Okay,
so if they are blank,
they will not be counted in the content text.
They will not be counted.
If they contain errors,
they will also not be counted.
Okay,
So,
to have an example,
we can actually write range.
And then we're going to count the cells in the range that is called my table.
The named range that we have created before.
So it right range my table dark account,
and we'll put that inside a message box.
So if we run that you will actually give us the number of cells in that range.
Remember,
guys,
the my table range was between a 12 f done.
So if we run that he will give us the count of the cells in that range.
So how many cells are in that range?
We've got 60 cells because that ranges six columns by 10 rows.
Okay,
So as you can see as well,
the cells have been counted regardless.
If the contained values or not,
you see the cells or blank.
But they have still being counted.
But in case of the count function,
the con function will not count blank cells.
Okay,
so I will also show you how to use the count function through VB.
A year will probably should have a separate video on how to use worksheet functions in XlV
.
Be able just show you how to use the count function here.
So actually put some values in my range first range money table.
So put 10 here,
for example,
any value press control and enter to just fill the whole range with this value.
Now,
I can actually count the number of cells in that range using the count function.
So I drive application worksheet function dot count and then I'll put my range,
which is range my underscore table,
OK?
And I'll put the inside a message box.
So if we run that you will see here that we will get 60 because all the cells contain
values.
Remember that count function does not count empty cells.
But if we clear some of the cells here,
make them empty and we run that again.
So I've actually clear 10 cells so that she give me 50.
So as you can see here,
we've got the count function giving us 50 cells as the count off the cells because it does
not count blank cells.
Okay,
so we will have actually another video in the course about how to use worksheet functions
in xlv b A,
but just wanted to show you the difference between the range not count property and the
worksheet function that is gold count.
OK,
so thanks,
guys.
Watching this video,
I'll see you on the next one